# Analysis of Future of Buffalo Breeds and Milk Production Growth in India

Gangaprasad Shahapurkar, fa20-523-326, [Edit](https://github.com/cybertraining-dsc/fa20-523-326/blob/master/project/project.md)

{{% pageinfo %}}

## Abstract

The water buffalo (Bubalus bubalis), also called domestic water buffalo or Asian water buffalo is a large bovid originating in the Indian subcontinent, Southeast Asia, and China. Today, it is also found in Europe, Australia, North America, South America and some African countries. Two extant types of water buffalo are recognized, based on morphological and behavioural criteria â€“ the river buffalo of the Indian subcontinent and further west to the Balkans, Egypt, and Italy, and the swamp buffalo, found from Assam in the west through Southeast Asia to the Yangtze valley of China in the east. India has the highest level of milk production and consumption of all countries. The dairy industry in India is unique among large-scale milk producing countries in terms of its large share of buffalo milk.

Contents

{{< table_of_contents >}}

{{% /pageinfo %}}


**Keywords:** buffalo, milk production, livestock , argriculture, india

## 1. Introduction

Indian Agriculture sector has been playing a vital role in overall
contribution to Indian Economy. Most of the rural community in the
nation still make their livelihood on Dairy Framing or Agriculture
farming. Dairy framing itself has been on its progressive stage from
past few years and it is contributing to almost more than 25% of
agriculture GDP [^2].

Livestock rearing has been integral part of rural community of the
nation. Livestock production plays major role in life of farmers. It
provides food, income, employment. It also does other contributions to
the overall rural development of the nation. The output of livestock
rearing such as milk, egg, meat, and wool provides everyday income to
the farmers on daily basis, it provides nutrition to consumers and
indirectly it helps in contributing to overall national economy and
socio-economic development of the country. Livestock rearing sector is
leveraging the economy in big way considering the growth we can see.

Livestock population comprises of different species by age, sex and
uses. This project takes a closer look and focus on the Buffalo breed in
India and will attempt to estimate milk production for year 2020 based
on the various features available in the dataset [^3]. The reason for
focusing on milk production because of various aspect came across based
on the past and current research seen in this area

-   The production of milk and meat from buffaloes in Asian countries
    over the last decades has shown a varying pattern: in countries such
    as India, Sri Lanka, Pakistan and China

-   Buffaloes are known to be better at converting poor-quality roughage
    into milk and meat. They are reported to have a 5 percent higher
    digestibility of crude fibre than high-yielding cows; and a 4-5
    percent higher efficiency of utilization of metabolic energy for
    milk production (Mudgal, 1988)

-   India is the highest buffalo milk producer in the world

-   The world buffalo population is estimated at 185.29 million, spread
    in some 42 countries, of which 179.75 million (97%) are in Asia
    (Source: Fao.org/stat 2008). India has 105.1 million and they
    comprise approximately 56.7 percent of the total world buffalo
    population. During the last 10 years, the world buffalo population
    increased by approximately 1.49% annually, by 1.53% in India, 1.45%
    in Asia and 2.67% in the rest of the world.

## 2. Dataset

The Animal Husbandry Statistics Division of the Department of Animal
Husbandry & Dairying division (DAHD) is responsible for generation of
Animal Husbandry Statistics through the schemes of Livestock Census and
Integrated Sample Surveys [^1].

It is mandate for this division

-   Conducting quinquennial livestock census.

-   Conducting annual sample survey through Integrated Sample Survey.

-   Publishing of Annual estimates of production of milk, eggs, meat,
    wool and other related Animal Husbandry Statistics based on
    Integrated Sample Survey conducted through State and Union
    Territories.

The Survey methodology of Integrated Sample Survey is defined by Indian
Agriculture Statistics Research Institute (IASRI). This is the only
scheme through which considerable data, particularly on the production
estimate of major livestock products, is being generated for policy
formulation in the livestock sector

Apart from vital census data published by this group no other
competitive data source was found.

## 3. Software Component

Based on features available in survey dataset, supervized machine learning algorithm will be devised and applied to get the predicted out labels being looked at as part of this project

## 4. Results

TBD

## 5. Discussion

TBD

## 6. Conclusion

TBD

## 7. Acknowledgements

TBD

## 8. References

[^1]: PIB Delhi. (2019). "Department of Animal Husbandry & Dairying
releases 20th Livestock Census", 16 (Oct 2019).
<https://pib.gov.in/PressReleasePage.aspx?PRID=1588304>

[^2]: Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying.
<http://dahd.nic.in/about-us/divisions/statistics>

[^3]: Alessandro, Nardone. (2010). "Buffalo Production and Research".
Italian Journal of Animal Science. 5. 10.4081/ijas.2006.203.
