---
title: '**[Report on Nursing Robots]{.underline}**'
---

**Abstract:**
=============

Robotic technology has gradually penetrated both personal and
professional life of human lives. This is very extensive field. Robotics
is an interdisciplinary branch of engineering and science that includes
mechanical engineering, electrical engineering, and computer science.
Artificial intelligence (AI) is playing fundamental role in robotics as
this technological advanced field is dealing with connecting perception
to action.

Robots are already being used in industries like manufacturing, places
were dangerous work needs to be carried out not possible by human, or
some places where human cannot survive. Robotics currently has lot of
professional and non-professional applications. They are being used in
non-professional applications like room cleaning, food preservation,
lawn mowing, playing with kids. Professional applications are mainly
public transport systems including the undergrounds, over grounds, and
metro services.

At present, there are rising incidences of lifestyle diseases and
growing demand for affordable healthcare. There has been increased role
of government in healthcare investment space and emergence of
technologies such as artificial learning (AI), machine learning (ML) and
robotics have been driving healthcare industry across the world. AI & ML
is becoming increasingly sophisticated at doing what humans do, but more
efficiently, quickly and at a lower cost

Japan is currently leading the world in advanced robotics, where usage
of service robot has been recently growing in nursing or care homes.
Many Japanese corporations are planning to exploit the great potentials
of nursing-care robots manufacturing especially where aimed at taking
care of older adults. There are about 5,000 nursing-care homes testing
robots for use in nursing care due to declining number of human nurses
to care for aged people (above 65 years of age) who are more than a
quarter of the population (the highest in OECD countries).

**Problem statement:**
======================

Census bureau estimates that nearly 25 % of population will be aged 65
or older by 2060. According to the World Bank population estimates and
projections, whilst Japan currently has some 126.3 million inhabitants
of which 34.7 million are aged 65 and above, representing 27.38% of the
overall population, in 2050 the total population of Japan will shrink to
108 million with 39 million people that will be aged 65 and above, which
will represent 36% of the overall population. There will be more demand
on care. This could cause a significant shortage of nurses in health
care to care for elderly.

Nurses spends time in doing multiple every day routine activities which
can be delegated to a different person. Researches around the globe have
observed and are of opinion that certain nursing function such as
ambulation services, patient vital signs measurement, medication
administration, infectious diseases protocols can be delegated to
robots. As robots learn to perform these duties role of nurses in
delivery care will change.

Research suggests that 8% to 16% nursing time is spent on non-nursing
activities. As robots learns to perform non-nursing activities, nurses
with robot support will have ability to take back the time spent on
non-nursing activities and spend more of it with patients. The robots
are being viewed as assistants to help nurses at bedside or in
community.

**Current Status of AI solution:**
==================================

Robotics is well on its way in many roles and procedure in health care.
Robotic engineers are advancing what robots can do and how they
emotionally respond to circumstances. Below are some of the AI solutions
used in nursing profession and carries out non-nursing activities

1.  **Patients vital sign measurement and repetitive task(s)**

    While every country is fighting with COVID situation, front line
    works are being under tremendous pressure, especially
    doctors/nurses. AI solution has come to rescue, with a robot-based
    solution that helps to collect samples for testing.

2.  **Humanoid Robot**

    PALRO is a humanoid type robot which can communicate with human
    \[\^5\]. It has ability to remember up to 100 faces and communicate
    through voice. It has proven effective when applied with some senior
    patients with Dementia.

3.  **Patient Caretaker**

> Japan introduced an experimental robot in 2015 "ROBEAR" \[\^2\]. With
> its rapidly increasing elderly population, Japan faces an urgent need
> for new approaches to assist care-giving personnel. One of the most
> strenuous tasks for such personnel, carried out an average of 40 times
> every day, is that of lifting a patient from a bed into a wheelchair,
> and this is a major cause of lower back pain. Robots are well-suited
> to this task, yet none have yet been deployed in care-giving
> facilities \[\^6\].

**Improvement opportunities:**
==============================

Communication
-------------

Humans are known to be intelligent creatures and has ability to adapt,
behave, and respond to any situation. Though Robots are developed by
humans they are still far away to mimic these human features. Studies
have shown that communication between human and robot has resulted in
worse outcomes when robots were involved in area like surgery. These are
high stress situation like operation room where we need to improvise
robots in terms of behavior, communication, and response

Movement
--------

Technology is moving fast paced where devices have started transitioning
from smart speakers to robots with ability to move. Articulation and
mobility will be the key features to personal/social robots that can
move and face the home user. Adding robotic functions to existing voice
control front-end devices will deliver confirmation of activation and
engagement through physical movement or simulated facial expressions.
Aging-in-place or Ambient Assisted Living (AAL) end-users may be one
consumer segment that would welcome greater robotic capabilities in a
voice control device.

Human-Bot Interaction
---------------------

Today's robots available can perform basic tasks that require no
emotional decision-making or empathy. In addition to ability to perform
basic task, they need to be able to interact with human co-workers
better so that they help to alleviate staff shortages.

**References:**
===============

\[\^1\] Robert, Nancy PhD, MBA-DSS, BSN How artificial intelligence is
changing nursing, Nursing Management (Springhouse): September 2019 -
Volume 50 - Issue 9 - p 30-39.
https://doi.org/10.1097/01.NUMA.0000578988.56622.21

\[\^2\] Ohio University. The Rise of the Robot Nurse. \[Online\].
<https://onlinemasters.ohio.edu/blog/the-rise-of-the-robot-nurse/>

\[\^3\] Costantino Grasso. (June 26, 2018). Challenges and advantages of
robotic nursing care: a social and ethical analysis. \[Online\].
<https://corporatesocialresponsibilityblog.com/2018/06/26/robotic-nursing-care/>

\[\^4\] Deborah Petrara. (August 22, 2019). Consumer Robotics is a
Market in Transition; Smart Home Will be at the Heart of the Change.
\[Online\].
<https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20190822005033/en/Consumer-Robotics-is-a-Market-in-Transition-Smart-Home-Will-be-at-the-Heart-of-the-Change>

\[\^5\] Inoue K., Sakuma N., Okada M., Sasaki C., Nakamura M., Wada K.
(2014) Effective Application of PALRO: A Humanoid Type Robot for People
with Dementia. In: Miesenberger K., Fels D., Archambault D., Peňáz P.,
Zagler W. (eds) Computers Helping People with Special Needs. ICCHP 2014.
Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol 8547. Springer, Cham.
<https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-08596-8_70>

\[\^6\] Jens Wilkinson. (Feb. 23, 2015). The strong robot with the
gentle touch. \[Online\].
https://www.riken.jp/en/news\_pubs/research\_news/pr/2015/20150223\_2/
